Hello, and welcome! In this video, we will provide an introduction to Deep Learning, and see why it is such a hot topic today. It is not an overstatement to say that Deep learning can be found all around us, as it is used in countless ways across all industries. For example, Deep Learning is trying to help the health care industry on tasks such as cancer detection and drug discovery. In the internet service and mobile phone industries, we can see various apps which are using Deep Learning for image/video classification and speech recognition, such as, Google Voice, Apple Siri, Microsoft Skype, and so on. In media, entertainment, and news, we can see applications such as video captioning, real-time translation and personalization, or recommendation systems such as Netflix. In the development of self-driving cars, Deep Learning is helping researchers to overcome significant research problems, such as sign and passenger detection or lane tracking. In the Security field, Deep Learning is used for face recognition and video surveillance. These are just a few examples of the industries in which Deep Learning is being applied; and it is being used in many other fields and domains as well. The increasing popularity of Deep Learning today comes from three recent advances in our field: First, in the dramatic increases in computer processing capabilities; second, in the availability of massive amounts of data for training computer systems; and third, in the advances in machine learning algorithms and research. So, what is deep learning? Deep Learning is a series of supervised, semi-supervised and unsupervised methods that try to solve some machine learning problems using deep neural networks. A deep neural network is a neural network which often has more than two layers, and uses specific mathematical modeling in each layer to process data. Generally speaking, these networks are trying to automatically extract feature sets from the data, and this is why, they are mostly used in data types where the feature selection process is difficult, such as when analyzing unstructured datasets, such as image data, videos, sound and text. Thanks for watching.